To provide a user with a fixed list of options like a menu.
We use a Select control.
This consists of a select element that wraps a series of option elements as with other controls.
The select element needs a value for the name attribute and each option element needs a value.
This value is what is submitted.
If this is the chosen element.
In the browser the select control looks like this and you can choose from the various options.
If we choose the second one for example when the form is submitted the value of this option is the value
that submitted far the mark element.
By default you can only choose one option in a select control.
But if we add the multiple attribute which is an attribute we can add just like that without a value.
If you like in the browser we can now select more than one option by holding down the control our command
key.
When we click.
However if we submit this.
We can only access one value.
In order to be able to access multiple values we need to add some empty square brackets to the end of
the control's name like that.
Now in the browser if we select multiple values and submit the farm we can access all the values that
were submitted.
Multiple select control is useful when you want the user to be able to select multiple values from a
list.
But it's not clear that the control or command key has to be used to do this.
For this reason it's more user friendly to use a series of check boxes for something like this which
will see you next.
If you have lots of options inside a selects like this then you can group these together if you like.
So it's easier for the user.
We do this by wrapping the groups of options inside up to group tags.
The label shown in the select control for each group is specified in the label attribute of each upt
group like that.
In the browser the select control.
Looks like this with the options in groups you can't select the group label only the individual options.
Note that the default value of a select control is always the first option.
In a text control we use the value attribute to set a value to be displayed when the farm is loaded.
The select element however doesn't have a value attribute.
Instead to select an option that will be selected when the farm is first loaded we add the selected
attributes.
To one of the option elements like this.
Now in the browser.
This option is selected by default instead of the first one for a multiple select box.
You can put the selected attribute on more than one option element and all these will be selected when
the farm is first loaded.